[MUSIC]
Hello, my name is Corey Gallon and
I help our clients solve complex problems
in finance by developing
tailored analytical solutions.
I'm excited to introduce you
to the analytical concepts we
will explore this week and provide
an overview of the use cases for each.
When we are trying to solve
problems analytically,
many times there is not one
right answer to these problems.
In fact, it is good practice to develop
a sense of how our analytical solutions
vary as we change our assumptions and
inputs to our analyses.
This week we will study formalized
approaches to changing assumptions and
inputs to better understand
possible outcomes of our analyses.
We think about these cases of questions
broadly as what if questions.
For example,
what happens to my model output
if I change the inputs to my
model across a range of values?
We'll look at three generally different
approaches to answering these, what if,
questions, scenario analysis,
sensitivity analysis, and simulation.
Scenario analysis involves the definition
of a specific state of the world, and
the related impact on variables
being analyzed, to capture and
quantify outcomes.
Scenario analysis helps
us formalize one or
more possible answers to
questions about the future.
For example, what would the Net Present
Value of a particular capital project be
if interest rates were to increase and
the project's lifetime
was decreased by 5 years?
We can think about scenario
analysis as a story driven
what if analysis across one or
more variables.
Sensitivity analysis involves changing
the values of an input to a model or
formula incrementally and
measuring the related change in outcomes.
For example, what would the Net Present
Value of a particular capital project be
as interest rates move from 1% to 15%?
We can think about sensitivity
analysis as numerical
values driven what if analysis on one or
more variables.
Simulation involves iterating through
possible values of one or more variables
of a model, in order to capture possible
and ultimately likely outcomes.
Simulation can be deterministic,
in that we iterate over all
possible values of a variable, or
non deterministic or random, in that
we iterate over values based on some
assumption of the probability of
a variable taking on these values.
For example given a 40%
probability of a $5
increase in cost per unit in the next 12
months, what is expected profit per unit?
We can think about simulation
as numerical values-driven
what if analysis on one or more variables
across a range of probable values.
We'll speak a little more about
each of these what if methods
as we work through the example
problems this week.
Excel provides us a number of useful
tools to perform such what if analysis
when we are building spreadsheet models.
This week, we will develop
an understanding of using goal seek
to back-into outcomes in our models,
using solver to mathematically
optimize outcomes of our models,
using data tables to perform
sensitivity analysis of our models.
Building scenarios for scenario analysis
using Excel's Scenario Manager feature.
And lastly,
implementing simulation in Excel
to better understand probable
outcomes as reflected in our models.
We will explore each of these features of
Excel in depth as the week progresses.
But for now,
let's walk through a quick overview of
these powerful tools for what if analysis.
Goal seek allows us to
answer what if questions,
by starting first with
the outcome of the analysis.
We tell Excel the value we want to see as
the output of a model and ask it to change
one input value in our model repeatedly
in order to achieve the stated output.
For example, in a capital budgeting
problem, if we wanted to know the discount
rate we should use in order to achieve
a specific Net Present Value, we can use
Goal Seek to determine the discount
rate to use in the NPV calculation.
Solver is a powerful tool to help us
mathematically optimize outcomes in our
models to support scenario analysis such
as best case or worst case analyses.
Mathematical optimization can be
thought of as determining the best or
worst outcome subject
to defined constraints,
from a group of alternative
possible outcomes.
For example, we may ask, what is
the combination of capital projects,
that is, best case, I should pursue
in order to maximize the Net Present Value
of my capital allocation?
This is a simplified example and
the built in Solver tool provided
with Excel is very powerful.
But we will barely scratch the surface for
use cases for
this potent optimization engine.
We encourage you to explore Solver and
it's many uses independently,
to enhance your own spreadsheet analyses.
Excel provides us two convenient and
related tools for
sensitivity analysis in
it's data tables feature.
Data tables provide a useful tool to
change inputs incrementally to our models,
either one or two at a time and
determine the impact of these
changes on modeled outcomes.
We could use a one way data
table to answer the question,
how sensitive is a capital project's
Net Present Value to changes in
the required return,
that is discount rate, between 1 and 10%.
Excel also provides two-way data tables,
which allows us to change two
variables in our model and
observe the incremental impact of
these changes on modeled outcomes.
Scenario analysis calls for
defining specific input to a model
which relate to a specific story
driven state of the world.
Excel provides a useful tool to capture
these different parameterizations
of our model, to define scenarios
in it's Scenario Manager feature.
Scenario Manager allows us to save inputs
to our model and therefore related outputs
as named scenarios, to facilitate asking
these what if questions in our analysis.
We may use Scenario Manager, for example,
to capture outputs of multiple scenarios
which answer the question, what is
the Net Present Value under my best,
moderate and worst case views of
the prospects for a given capital project?
Excel provides a number of
functions which a system developing
simulations of probable
outcomes in our analysis.
We will explore simulation
using the Monte Carlo method,
whereby we repeatedly allow
variables in our analysis
to take on possible values in accordance
with probability distribution,
in order to determine possible
outcomes of our analysis.
We will discuss Monte Carlo simulation
more as we work through the related
example this week.
And we encourage participants to
study this useful simulation method
independently to gain a full
appreciation for its applications.
When conducting data analysis, it is
important to understand the impact of
changes in model variables to the outcomes
and conclusions of our analysis.
We ask what if questions
in a variety of ways,
though we'll focus on questions
pertaining to scenario analysis,
sensitivity analysis and
simulation in particular.
We'll explore answering these questions
using functionality Excel provides in it's
Goal Seek, Solver, Data Tables,
Scenario Manager, and Simulation features.
You'll need the Excel Analysis ToolPak
installed and enabled, as for
prior exercises in this specialization.
We'll provide a refresher
on how to install and
enable this add-on should you need it.
As with week's previous, we will work
through example problems with you and then
provide you with problems to work through
on your own to confirm your understanding.
We encourage you to prepare for
the culminating exercise at the end of
each module and use these exercises
as an indication of your comprehension
of the concepts presented therein.
Now let's dive in and explore answering
what if questions in our analyses, enjoy.
[MUSIC]